Update other guides in how to deploy an arbitrum chain (#2314)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/03-deploy-an-arbitrum-chain/05-deploying-token-bridge.md

---
title: 'Deploy a token bridge using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK'
description: 'How to deploy a token bridge using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK '
author: GreatSoshiant, jose-franco
sme: GreatSoshiant, jose-franco
target_audience: 'Developers deploying and maintaining Arbitrum chains.'
user_story: As a current or prospective Arbitrum chain deployer, I need to understand how to deploy a token bridge using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK.
content_type: how-to
---

import RaaSNotice from '../partials/_raas-providers-notice.mdx';

<RaaSNotice />

> The Arbitrum stack doesn't natively support specific token bridging standards at the protocol level. Instead, Offchain Labs designed a "canonical token bridge" that ensures seamless ERC-20 token transfers between the parent and child chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Arbitrum stack doesn't natively support specific token bridging standards at the protocol level. Instead, Offchain Labs designed a "canonical token bridge" that ensures seamless `ERC-20` token transfers between the parent and child chains.
```

The token bridge architecture includes contracts deployed on the <a data-quicklook-from='parent-chain'>parent chain</a> and on the <a data-quicklook-from='child-chain'>child chain</a>. These entities communicate via the <a data-quicklook-from='retryable-ticket'>retryable ticket</a> protocol, ensuring efficient and secure interactions.

> Once you have deployed your Arbitrum chain and have a node running, you can deploy a token bridge for your chain. See the [Overview](/launch-arbitrum-chain/arbitrum-chain-sdk-introduction.md) for an introduction to the process of creating and configuring an Arbitrum chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have deployed your Arbitrum chain and have a node running, you can deploy a token bridge for your chain. See the [Overview](/launch-arbitrum-chain/arbitrum-chain-sdk-introduction.md) for an introduction to creating and configuring an Arbitrum chain.
```

Before reading this guide, we recommend:

- Becoming familiar with the general process of creating new chains explained in [How to deploy a Rollup chain](/launch-arbitrum-chain/03-deploy-an-arbitrum-chain/02-deploying-rollup-chain.md)
- Learning about the canonical token bridge in the [Token bridging](/build-decentralized-apps/token-bridging/01-overview.mdx) section

## Parameters used when deploying a token bridge

Before we describe the process of deploying a token bridge using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK, let's take a look at the parameters we need to pass to the token bridge creator contract.

> Deploying a new token bridge for an Arbitrum chain is done through a [TokenBridgeCreator](/launch-arbitrum-chain/03-deploy-an-arbitrum-chain/07-canonical-factory-contracts.mdx) contract that processes the creation of the needed contracts and sends the appropriate ParentToChild messages from the parent chain to the child chain so the counterpart contracts of the token bridge are created in the Arbitrum chain.

Author: I'm not a big fan of using code tags inside a link, since they create a yet another format. If that's an standard we want to apply on our docs I can add it though!

> Deploying a new token bridge for an Arbitrum chain is done through a [TokenBridgeCreator](/launch-arbitrum-chain/03-deploy-an-arbitrum-chain/07-canonical-factory-contracts.mdx) contract that processes the creation of the needed contracts and sends the appropriate ParentToChild messages from the parent chain to the child chain so the counterpart contracts of the token bridge are created in the Arbitrum chain.

Reviewer: We have been using them across the docs - I know it's not perfect, but it's a way to highlight we're referring to a function/method or some refs to code

> Deploying a new token bridge for an Arbitrum chain is done through a [TokenBridgeCreator](/launch-arbitrum-chain/03-deploy-an-arbitrum-chain/07-canonical-factory-contracts.mdx) contract that processes the creation of the needed contracts and sends the appropriate ParentToChild messages from the parent chain to the child chain so the counterpart contracts of the token bridge are created in the Arbitrum chain.

Author: Done in https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs/pull/2314/commits/9a1e729b3132991b66722a36fb1c53bf3720ef0b

```solidity
address inbox,
address rollupOwner,
uint256 maxGasForContracts,
uint256 gasPriceBid
```

The following table describes these parameters:

| Parameter            | Type    | Description                                                                                                               |
| :------------------- | :------ | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `inbox`              | address | Address of the Inbox contract of the chain. This is used to uniquely identify the chain.                                  |
| `rollupOwner`        | address | Account address responsible for deploying, owning, and managing your Arbitrum chain's base contracts on its parent chain. |
| `maxGasForContracts` | uint256 | Gas limit used for executing the retryable ticket on the child chain.                                                     |
| `gasPriceBid`        | uint256 | Max gas price used for executing the retryable ticket on the child chain.                                                 |

> When creating the token bridge through the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK, the parameters `maxGasForContracts` and `gasPriceBid` don't need to be configured, since the SDK will calculate the right values for them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating the token bridge through the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK, the parameters `maxGasForContracts` and `gasPriceBid` don't need to be configured, since the SDK will calculate the right values.
```

## How to deploy a token bridge using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK

> Let's now look at the methods to use when creating a token bridge using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at the methods to create a token bridge using the Arbitrum chain (Orbit) SDK.
```

- `publicClient`: a viem's public client for the parent chain

The following example shows how to use these functions:

```typescript
import { createPublicClient, http } from 'viem';
import {
  createTokenBridgeEnoughCustomFeeTokenAllowance,
  createTokenBridgePrepareCustomFeeTokenApprovalTransactionRequest,
} from '@arbitrum/orbit-sdk';

const parentChainPublicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain: parentChain,
  transport: http(),
});

const allowanceParams = {
  nativeToken,
  owner: rollupOwner.address,
  publicClient: parentChainPublicClient,
};

if (!(await createTokenBridgeEnoughCustomFeeTokenAllowance(allowanceParams))) {
  const approvalTxRequest = await createTokenBridgePrepareCustomFeeTokenApprovalTransactionRequest(
    allowanceParams,
  );

  // sign and send the transaction
  const approvalTxHash = await parentChainPublicClient.sendRawTransaction({
    serializedTransaction: await rollupOwner.signTransaction(approvalTxRequest),
  });

  // get the transaction receipt after waiting for the transaction to complete
  const approvalTxReceipt = await parentChainPublicClient.waitForTransactionReceipt({
    hash: approvalTxHash,
  });
}
```

### 2. Deploy the token bridge

> To initiate the token bridge deployment process, we can call the `createTokenBridgePrepareTransactionRequest` function, which will craft a transaction request to be signed by the chain owner, and sent to the `TokenBridgeCreator` contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To initiate the token bridge deployment process, we can call the `createTokenBridgePrepareTransactionRequest` function, which will craft a transaction request to be signed by the chain owner and sent to the `TokenBridgeCreator` contract.
```

} from '@arbitrum/orbit-sdk';

const parentChainPublicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain: parentChain,
  transport: http(),
});
const orbitChainPublicClient = createPublicClient({
  chain: orbitChain,
  transport: http(),
});

const txRequest = await createTokenBridgePrepareTransactionRequest({
  params: {
    rollup: coreContracts.rollup,
    rollupOwner: rollupOwner.address,
  },
  parentChainPublicClient,
  orbitChainPublicClient,
  account: rollupOwner.address,
});

// sign and send the transaction
const txHash = await parentChainPublicClient.sendRawTransaction({
  serializedTransaction: await rollupOwner.signTransaction(txRequest),
});

// get the transaction receipt after waiting for the transaction to complete
const txReceipt = createTokenBridgePrepareTransactionReceipt(
  await parentChainPublicClient.waitForTransactionReceipt({ hash: txHash }),
);
```

### 3. Wait for retryable tickets to execute

After the transaction is executed on the parent chain, we wait for the generated retryable tickets to be executed on the child chain. To do this, we use a `waitForRetryable` method available in the `txReceipt` object returned by `createTokenBridgePrepareTransactionReceipt`.

> Remember that these retryable tickets are meant to create the counterpart contracts of the token bridge in the child chain, so they can communicate with each other. The first retryable ticket creates a creator contract on the child chain configured with the templates of all the token bridge contracts. The second retryable creates the actual counterpart contracts of the token bridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that these retryable tickets intend to create the counterpart contracts of the token bridge in the child chain so that they can communicate. The first retryable ticket creates a creator contract on the child chain configured with the templates of all the token bridge contracts. The second retryable creates the actual counterpart contracts of the token bridge.
```

const orbitChainRetryableReceipts = await txReceipt.waitForRetryables({
  orbitPublicClient: orbitChainPublicClient,
});
console.log(`Retryables executed`);
console.log(
  `Transaction hash for first retryable is ${orbitChainRetryableReceipts[0].transactionHash}`,
);
console.log(
  `Transaction hash for second retryable is ${orbitChainRetryableReceipts[1].transactionHash}`,
);
if (orbitChainRetryableReceipts[0].status !== 'success') {
  throw new Error(
    `First retryable status is not success: ${orbitChainRetryableReceipts[0].status}. Aborting...`,
  );
}
if (orbitChainRetryableReceipts[1].status !== 'success') {
  throw new Error(
    `Second retryable status is not success: ${orbitChainRetryableReceipts[1].status}. Aborting...`,
  );
}
```

### 4. Obtain the token bridge contracts (optional)

Once the token bridge deployment is successful, you can use the `getTokenBridgeContracts` method to retrieve all the token bridge contracts' addresses:

```typescript
const tokenBridgeContracts = await txReceipt.getTokenBridgeContracts({
  parentChainPublicClient,
});
```

### 5. Set up the WETH gateway

:::note

> That step only applies to ETH-based Arbitrum chains (i.e., not custom gas token chains). The canonical bridge design has a separate custom gateway for `WETH` to bridge it in and out of the Arbitrum chain.

Author: This is ETH as in the token (they use ETH as the gas oken). `Ethereum-based` seems to be related to being deployed on top of the Ethereum blockchain.

You can find more info about `WETH` gateways in our ["other gateways flavors" documentation](/build-decentralized-apps/token-bridging/03-token-bridge-erc20.mdx#other-flavors-of-gateways).

:::

Once the token bridge is deployed, if the chain uses `ETH` as the gas token, you must set a special gateway to be able to bridge `WETH`. This gateway unwraps `WETH` to bridge it as `ETH` and wraps it back to `WETH` on the destination chain.

> You can use the methods `createTokenBridgePrepareSetWethGatewayTransactionRequest` and `createTokenBridgePrepareSetWethGatewayTransactionReceipt` to set this gateway, in a similar way than what we used to send the `createTokenBridge` request earlier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the methods `createTokenBridgePrepareSetWethGatewayTransactionRequest` and `createTokenBridgePrepareSetWethGatewayTransactionReceipt` to set this gateway, in a similar way to what we used to send the `createTokenBridge` request earlier.
```

> This action also generates a retryable ticket that is sent to the child chain to create and configure the `WETH` gateway, so you should wait to verify that the ticket is successfully executed.

Author: Wording seems a bit confusing IMO. But I think I found a clearer way for that first sentence:
```
This action also sends a retryable ticket to the child chain to create and configure the WETH gateway...
```
